---
title:       Camping, a Microframework
dirty:       yes
filter:
  - erb
  - textile
---

!<{width:80px}/img/badge.gif!

Camping is a web framework which consistently stays at less than 4kB of code.
You can probably view the complete source code on a single page. But, you know,
it’s so small that, if you think about it, what can it really do?

The idea here is to store a complete fledgling web application in a single file
like many small CGIs. But to organize it as a Model-View-Controller application
like Rails does. You can then easily move it to Rails once you’ve got it going.

h2. Short Example

<% ruby do %>
Camping.goes :Blog

module Blog::Models
  class Post < Base; end
end

module Blog::Controllers
  class Index
    def get
      @posts = Post.all
      render :index
    end
  end
end

module Blog::Views
  def index
    @posts.each do |post|
      h1 post.title
      div.content! { post.body }
    end
  end
end
<% end %>


h2(#getting-started). Getting Started

Interested yet? Great, the links below should get you started pretty quickly. If
you're having some problems or there's something you're wondering about, don't
hesitate to join the "community":#community.

"*Installation:*":installation By using RubyGems it's just a matter of a few
keystrokes to install Camping. There's also experimental builds if you want the
latest features.

"*The Camping Book:*":book Something about the book.

"*Rules of Thumb:*":rules-of-thumb Something about the rules of thumb.

"*Philosophy:*":philosophy Something about what makes Camping different.

"*The Camping Wiki*":wiki Something about the wiki.

"*Upgrading:*":upgrading Something about upgrading from Camping 1.5.


h2(#community). Community

Camping has a small, but helpful community and most issues are resolved quickly.
Don't be afraid to ask; there's no point of trying to figure everything out by
yourself when we might be able to answer it in a second. We also love to hear
all about how _you_ are using Camping, and maybe you can teach us few tricks
you've discovered too.

If you have any feature requests or suggestions on how we can improve Camping,
don't feel bad for throwing out suggestions without being able to contribute
code. The ideas are just as important as the implementation, and Camping won't
get any further without your feedback. Tell the community what you want, and
hopefully someone is able to help you.

"*Mailing List:*":mailing-list The mailing list is the most central part of the
Camping community and you should definitly join it right away. This is both
where the main development of Camping happens, and where questions are answered
quickly. (There's also a "searchable archive":searchable-mailing-low if you're
looking for a specific message.)

"*#camping @ irc.freenode.net:*":irc There's also a few of us who are available
at IRC so if you feel like chatting with us, this where you should be. Please
hang around if no one answers you right away, and it's also very helpful if you
leave your email so we can get back to you when we're available again.

"*Issues:*":issues We also have a bug tracker where you can see all of the known (and resolved) bugs and feature requests at the moment. If you have a very specific problem, it might be a good idea to see if it's been reported before. If not, you might open a new issue or maybe ask the the mailing list.

"*Source code:*":source The source code of Camping is available freely under the
MIT licence, which pretty much give you permission to do anything you want with
it.

[installation]http://wiki.github.com/camping/camping/installation
[book]http://camping.rubyforge.org/book.html
[rules-of-thumb]http://wiki.github.com/camping/camping/rules-of-thumb
[wiki]http://wiki.github.com/camping/camping/
[philosophy]http://wiki.github.com/camping/camping/philosophy
[upgrading]http://camping.rubyforge.org/book/51_upgrading.html

[mailing-list]http://rubyforge.org/mailman/listinfo/camping-list
[search-mailing-list]http://www.mail-archive.com/camping-list@rubyforge.org/info.html
[irc]http://java.freenode.net/?channel=camping
[issues]http://github.com/camping/camping/issues
[source]http://github.com/camping/camping
[contributing]http://wiki.github.com/camping/camping//contributing

h2. What now?

Hello
